h2. What is scribe-up ?

*scribe-up* (up for User Profile) is a web OAuth client to :
# delegate authentication and permissions at an OAuth provider
# retrieve the profile of the authorized user after successfull authentication and permissions acceptation.

It's available under the Apache 2 license and based on : "scribe-java":https://github.com/fernandezpablo85/scribe-java (for OAuth protocol) and "Jackson":https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-core (for JSON parsing).

h2. OAuth providers supported

| DropBox (OAuth 1.0) | Facebook (OAuth 2.0) | Github (OAuth 2.0) | Google (OAuth 1.0 & 2.0) | LinkedIn (OAuth 1.0) | Twitter (OAuth 1.0) | Windows Live (OAuth 2.0) | WordPress (OAuth 2.0) | Yahoo (OAuth 1.0) |

Look at the "description of the providers and profiles":https://github.com/leleuj/scribe-up/wiki/Description-of-providers-and-profiles or follow the guide to "extend or add a new provider":https://github.com/leleuj/scribe-up/wiki/Extend-or-add-a-new-provider.

h2. Code sample

Suppose you want to authenticate and get the user profile from Facebook :
<pre><code>// declare the provider (use default scope and fields)
FacebookProvider provider = new FacebookProvider();
provider.setKey(MY_KEY);
provider.setSecret(MY_SECRET);
provider.setCallbackUrl("http://myserver/myapp/callbackUrl");
// send the user to Facebook for authentication and permissions
response.sendRedirect(provider.getAuthorizationUrl(new HttpUserSession(session)));
</code></pre>...after successfull authentication, on the callback url for Facebook...<pre><code>// get OAuth credentials :
OAuthCredential credential = provider.getCredential(new HttpUserSession(request), request.getParameterMap());
// or get a facebook profile if the user has been authenticated by Facebook
FacebookProfile facebookProfile = (FacebookProfile) provider.getUserProfile(credential);
System.out.println("Hello : " + facebookProfile.getDisplayName() + " born the " + facebookProfile.getBirthday());</code></pre>
<pre><code>// get a common profile if the user can be authenticated by several OAuth providers
CommonProfile commonProfile = (CommonProfile) provider.getUserProfile(credential);
System.out.println("Hello : " + commonProfile.getDisplayName() + " at " + commonProfile.getEmail());</code></pre>

For a better understanding of *scribe-up*, take a look at the "technical description of the project":https://github.com/leleuj/scribe-up/wiki/Technical-description or browse the "Javadoc":http://javadoc.leleuj.cloudbees.net/.

h2. Libraries built on scribe-up

Even if you can use *scribe-up* on its own, this library was created to be the foundation of :
# the "cas-server-support-oauth":https://wiki.jasig.org/display/CASUM/OAuth module to add OAuth client and server support to the "CAS server":http://www.jasig.org/cas
# the "buji-oauth":https://github.com/bujiio/buji-oauth library to add OAuth client support to the "Apache Shiro project":http://shiro.apache.org
# the "spring-security-oauth-client":https://github.com/leleuj/spring-security-oauth-client library to add OAuth client support to "Spring Security":http://static.springsource.org/spring-security/site/.

|_.Library|_.Based on scribe-up version|_.Demo webapp|
|cas-server-support-oauth 3.5.0|1.0.0|"cas-oauth-demo-3.5.0":https://github.com/leleuj/cas-oauth-demo-3.5.0|
|cas-server-support-oauth 3.5.1|1.1.0|"cas-oauth-demo":https://github.com/leleuj/cas-oauth-demo|
|buji-oauth 1.0.0|1.2.0|"scribe-up-shiro-demo":https://github.com/leleuj/scribe-up-shiro-demo|
|spring-security-oauth-client 1.0.0|1.2.0|"spring-security-oauth-client-demo":https://github.com/leleuj/spring-security-oauth-client-demo|

h2. Versions

The current version : 1.3.0-SNAPSHOT is under development, it's available on "Sonatype snapshots repository":https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/scribe/scribe-up/ :<pre><code><dependency>
  <groupId>org.scribe</groupId>
  <artifactId>scribe-up</artifactId>
  <version>1.3.0-SNAPSHOT</version></dependency></code></pre>
The last release version is 1.2.0-RC1. Learn more about the "different versions":https://github.com/leleuj/scribe-up/wiki/Versions.

h2. Testing

ScribeUP is tested by 177 unit tests and also 10 integration tests on OAuth providers by simulating complete authentication processes (using the "HtmlUnit":http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/ library).

h2. Contact

Find me on "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/in/jleleu or by email : leleuj@gmail.com
